Viv, I know there are only
three shopping days left,
but they called,
And they want to see
your house in an hour.
(rock music playing)
Uh-huh.
Mom! Make Buzz
turn off the music.
(pop music playing)
No problem.
Mom!
- "Mom."
- Hang on, Viv.
Let your sister rehearse.
Like that'll help.
And clean up the kitchen.
But--
Now. Okay, Viv.
I'll see you in a bit.
I thought I told you
to clean up the kitchen.
I did. Can I go to the movies
tonight with some friends?
No.
No--
No, no. I'm showing a house and
I need you to baby-sit Kevin.
Well, why can't Megan do it?
Because she has to go
to rehearsal at the teen center.
And you don't have
to go to the movies.
I do if I want a life.
You're baby-sitting Kevin.
Hey, where is he, anyway? Kevin.
What is it?
BOY: A car!
Whoa!
MAN:
Wait a second. That was--
Honey, that was mine.
BUZZ (on tv):
Awesome. It's got an antenna
and everything.
DAD:
Merry Christmas, Mommy.
BOY: Merry Christmas.
MOM (on tv):
Merry Christmas.
DAD:
What did I get?
BUZZ: What is this?
Megan: Thank you.
MOM:
Everybody get in the shot.
Everybody get together.
BUZZ:
Okay.
MOM (on tv):
All right. Merry Christmas.
Merry Christmas.
Very funny, Buzz.
(Mom laughing on TV)
- Last Christmas, huh?
- Yeah.
This Christmas isn't
gonna be any fun.
Of course
it will.
Honey, we're gonna do
all the same things
we've always done.
Sing Christmas carols,
be with family and friends,
Put cookies and milk
out for Santa.
- It's gonna be just the same.
- Except this year,
no Dad.
Right. That's the one thing
that's different.
Why can't you just
get back together?
(sighs) Honey, we're just gonna
have to let that go.
(chattering on TV)
That's a no, right?
It means some things are
just out of our control.
I know you miss your dad.
And he loves me very much.
You both do, and it has
nothing to do with me.
- Did he tell you that?
- I'm nine years old.
I watch a lot of tv.
Did he leave
because of me?
No. Of course not.
I knew it.
It was Buzz and Megan.
(chuckles)
Oh, it wasn't anyone...
Or any one thing.
Then what was it?
That's not easy to explain.
But, uh, sometimes when...
people are married for
a long time, they get into
kind of a rut.
You know what a rut is?
Yeah. Like, when people
aren't having any fun,
and they're really bored.
Kind of like that.
Now, will you
come downstairs?
When you're ready.
(chattering on TV)
Hey!
(clapping)
Wait a second.
Megan: Kevin, come in here.
BUZZ: Yeah, hurry,
you've gotta see this!
(groans)
Ow! Hey! Hey!
- You always fall for that.
- Let me up, zit-face!
- Lamebrain.
When are you gonna learn?
- Get off your brother.
- And shouldn't
you be rehearsing?
-(Kevin grunting)
- How are you getting
to the teen center?
- Ashley's mom's picking me up
in a half hour.
(grunting continues)
Can I please
go to the movies?
No. I told you.
You're watching Kevin.
- Please let him go.
I'll stay home alone.
- No.
- (scoffs)
I've done it before.
- Don't remind me.
You loused up
my whole night.
If I'm gonna be miserable,
you're gonna be miserable.
Mom!
(door opens)
MAN:
Hello. It's me.
Dad!
Hey, big guy.
(growls playfully)
I didn't know
you were coming tonight.
Oh, I thought
I'd surprise you.
Hey, Dad.
Hey, Buzz.
Oh, Kate. Gosh,
the place looks great.
Really nice decorations.
- Same as every year.
- KEVIN: So, um,
Dad, why'd you
come tonight?
Actually,
I want to talk to
your mom about something.
Privately.
Do you think
he wants to come home?
Aw, Kev.
(huffs)
What?
No "Hello, how are ya?"
I'm sorry. I have
a business appointment,
Peter. What do you want?
Okay, gosh.
I wasn't gonna
jump right into it, but--
Well, you know Natalie
and I are living together,
and, uh,
well, when our divorce is final,
I'm gonna marry her.
Really?
You're getting married again.
Wow. That's, uh--
that--
(exhales) Wow. We've only been
separated eight months.
Yeah, I-- it just
happened real quickly, and--
listen, Kate,
I really want the kids
to spend a little time
with me over the holidays.
You want the kids for Christmas?
Just a couple of days.
I want them to get
to know Natalie better.
Oh, because she's gonna be
their, uh, stepmother.
Yeah.
Well, you're gonna
have to ask them.
I know.
- How am I supposed to
see my friends?
- It's only for a few days.
Well, duh, but that's
just long enough for me
to fall out of the loop.
- Yeah, you can't expect us
to give up our vacation.
- Well, Kevin?
There's a royal family
coming to visit.
They have a son around your age.
You might have a chance
to play with a crown prince.
A crown prince?
Wouldn't that be cool?
- Yeah, way cool.
- And you guys wouldn't believe
the room
that Natalie has
set up for you.
What do you say?
- I think I'm gonna pass.
- (exhales)
It just wouldn't be right
leaving the family
at Christmas.
I'm sure you understand.
Yeah. Yeah, I do.
Well, it's-- it's
an open invitation, hmm?
And I won't be
back too late.
And since you're staying home,
it wouldn't hurt to do
some of your chores.
Yes, ma'am.
I'll make sure they get done.
Clean it, cheese-face.
Ow!
Oops.
My fault.
Hello, I'm home.
Hey.
How'd it go?
Awful.
I hate Buzz and I never
want to be stuck home alone
with him as long as I live.
Oh, honey.
I know he picks on you.
Picks on me?
Humiliates me,
tortures me.
I'm sick of being everyone's
favorite joke around here.
Yeah. Yeah,
it's hard to be the youngest.
Well, I hate Buzz.
I wish I didn't have
a brother or a sister.
- You don't mean that.
- Yes, I do!
I wish I was
an only child!
Well, I'm sorry that
you're so unhappy.
Maybe you should go to your room
and think about what you have,
rather than what you don't have.
(scoffs)
(sighs)
Only children don't know
how good they have it.
Life would be perfect if
Buzz and Megan weren't around.
I mean, is it too much
to ask for a family
who actually likes me?
(sighs)
I'd run away.
If I knew where to run to.
Hey, I do!
I have an open invitation.
(coins jingling)
PETER:
Can't get my seat belt
unfastened.
(woman laughs)
PETER:
Thanks, Alan.
Thanks.
Oh, what an incredible evening.
And not a bad night's work.
We raised over two million
for those children's charities.
Door, open.
And I am on the verge
of signing two of
the biggest clients in
Chicago.
That's because you're
the best publicist
in the world.
- Doors, close.
- Have I remembered to thank you
for telling everyone that?
Fire, light.
Not tonight you haven't.
Perhaps I ought to
show my appreciation.
Music, on.
(classical music starts)
Curtains, close.
(chuckles)
Aw, nuts. Just when
things were getting good.
Nice house, huh, pumpkin?
Sure is, Marv. You sure
you don't wanna rob it?
No. No, I don't wanna rob it.
My robbery days are over.
Darling, we're moving up
to the big money. All right?
The easy money.
No middleman.
Pure profit. Strictly
a class operation, huh?
Three words, Vera.
Kid-- na-- pping.
I think that's only one word.
We're gonna wait for
the royals to arrive--
Hup, dup, dodey-do--
and then we're
gonna kidnap the prince.
(high-pitched voice)
"Oh, don't kidnap me.
I'm fancy."
You sure we can pull it off?
I mean, without
Harry making the plans?
Look where Harry's plans
kept landing me, huh?
In jail.
Well, not this time.
Because this time...
I'm the boss.
- (scoffs)
- Who's the boss?
- You're the boss.
- I love being married. Eh?
- That's my girl.
- Hey!
Oh! Looks like
they got a visitor.
This where you want to go?
Yeah, this is the place.
Thank you very much.
(coins jingling)
Keep the change.
It's allchange.
(snoring)
(beep)
(sighs)
Who are you?
(gulps)
MAN (on speaker):
Beg your pardon, ma'am.
Yes, Prescott?
Mr. McCallister has a visitor.
The young man claims
to be his son.
Well, send him in.
- Kevin!
- Dad!
Hey! Oh! I thought
you said weren't coming.
Well, I started thinking, hey,
it's not fair if Mom gets
all the kids for Christmas.
(chuckling)
What's Christmas
without kids, right?
Right. Hello, Kevin.
Hi, Natalie.
I hope you don't mind me
just dropping in like this,
But my dad did invite me.
- Yes, I know.
- So is the invitation
still open?
Of course it is.
Molly, would you
come here, please?
I've been looking forward
to spending time with you.
Your dad talks about
you kids a lot.
Buzz is the troublemaker.
I'm the adorable one.
Oh. Ah, Molly.
This is Kevin McCallister,
and he's going to be staying
with us for a few days.
Would you make up
the special guest room?
Ah, the special guest room.
Right away, ma'am.
- Oh, and Prescott,
give Kevin a house key.
- If you say so, ma' am.
What kind of key is this?
It's a key to the whole house.
This is a smart house, Kevin.
It does whatever
you tell it to.
Fire, out.
Curtains, open.
Wow! I think
I'm gonna like it here.
Go ahead. You try.
Door, open.
Wow! This stuff
is so cool.
Oh, my gosh!
This is such cool stuff! Ah!
Oh! Look at this game!
This chair's
a remote control chair! Oh!
Oh, yeah!
This is so cool! Oh!
- Think you'll
be comfortable here?
- I'll say!
Thanks, Natalie.
This is gonna be
the best Christmas ever!
Lights out, Kev.
Hey, Kevin?
Kevin.
How many times
can I lose this child?
Kevin.
(cell phone rings)
Hello.
PETER: Kate, I...
wanted to let you know
Kevin just got here.
Oh, thank God...
He got there... safely.
- I was gonna call you,
but uh--
- Are you okay?
Yeah. Yes, I'm fine.
Well, thanks for
letting him come.
- Well, thanks for calling.
- Merry Christmas.
Merry Christmas.
MOLLY'S VOICE:
Good mornin', Kevin.
Good morning.
Who's there?
Over here, dear.
Hey. Hi.
Breakfast time.
Anything special you'd like?
Anything?
Anything.
- Wow!
- Sometimes I can't wait
for Santa to come,
so I end up doing
some shopping by myself.
Would you like to open one?
No, you're gonna spoil him.
Dad, it's her house.
If she wants to spoil me,
she can spoil me.
All right.
But just one.
And not...
The biggest one.
Does it really fly?
It really does,
but only outside.
NATALIE:
We don't want to break anything.
Wow! Thanks, Natalie!
Why do you have to leave?
It's so close to Christmas.
Yeah, I know, but the royal
family's coming for one
of Natalie's fund-raisers,
and it's my job to make sure
the event's well-covered
by press and photographers.
Hey, it's not gonna take
that long, and I won't have
to work for the rest
of your vacation, okay?
And if you need anything,
ask Prescott.
He'll take care of you.
It's a cool plane, huh?
I think she's trying
to buy my affection.
- (chuckles)
Kevin.
- What?
I'm not saying
it's a bad thing.
I'm glad you're here.
(engine starts)
Mr. Prescott,
can I ask you a question?
- Yes.
- Can you make a milk shake?
Do you have chocolate?
What? Natalie said
anything I need.
And you need a milk shake,
do you?
A chocolate one.
- Do you think
we'll have a white Christmas?
- It seems highly unlikely,
given the recent
unseasonable temperatures.
What's this thing?
A mini elevator?
It's called a dumbwaiter.
- Why is it called a waiter?
- Because it carries food.
- Why is it called dumb?
- Because it doesn't speak...
or ask countless
idiotic questions.
(machine whirring)
- Can you read?
- (gasps)
The door.
"No entry."
- What, does that mean me?
- Especially you.
This is the control center
from which I manage
this entire household...
as well as
my personal quarters.
Now, Miss Natalie may have
granted you run of her home,
but this is my domain
and strictly off-limits.
Understood?
Any more questions?
Good.
(humming)
Hey, Molly.
Whatcha doing?
Cleanin' the house.
- Gross.
- Oh, no, no. Not in this house.
Watch. Vacuum, on.
- Vacuum, off.
- Wow! The place even
cleans itself!
Want to see somethin'
really cool?
Open sesame.
Wow! This place is awesome.
(chuckles)
Yes, it is.
♪ Wow, I feel good ♪
(lip-synching)
♪ I knew that I would now ♪
♪ I feel good ♪
♪ So good
so good ♪
♪ I got you ♪
♪ Ow I feel nice ♪
♪ Like sugar and spice ♪
♪ I feel nice ♪
♪ So nice
so nice ♪
♪ I got you ♪
(thud)
(Prescott groans)
♪ When I hold you
in my arms ♪
♪ I know that
I can do no wrong♪
♪ And when I hold you
in my arms ♪
♪ My love won't do you
no harm ♪
♪ And I feel nice ♪
♪ Like sugar and spice ♪
Music, off?
♪ I feel nice ♪
♪ Like sugar and spice ♪
Music, off.
I'm off to the store.
I'll be back in an hour or so.
And don't pick on
that dear child.
Door, open.
MARV:
She's out of the house.
All right.
The coast is clear.
Let's go.
Wait. Are you sure
it's safe?
Pumpkin, would I take you
in there if it wasn't safe?
It's just if the prince
don't arrive till tomorrow,
why are we going in there now?
To get the lay of the land.
What do ya think, Vera,
We're just gonna
go in there tomorrow
and start grabbing kids?
"Ooh, everybody
get in the van." No.
We gotta figure out
the where, the when, the how
to get him out of there.
Do you know the secret
to criminal success?
Not getting caught.
Planning. Preparation.
Preparedness.
Be prepared.
Be a prepared "preperator."
Eh? That's my motto,
and that's why I'm--
A boy scout.
No. The boss, eh?
Who's the boss?
You're the boss!
Where's the boss?
Right here.
Hey. Boss, party of one.
Right there.
All right.
Let's go, pookie.
No. It can't be!
It is! It's Marv!
Mr. Prescott?
Mr. Prescott, are you there?
Mr. Prescott! Help!
(gasps)
Marv, the alarm is on.
Oh, no.
What are we gonna do?
Watch this, eh?
Oh.
- Alarm, off.
- (beeps)
Hmm.
Door, open.
(buzz)
Ahh!
That is one handy gadget.
Well, what's my motto?
You're the boss?
Be prepared.
Yeah.
Right.
I married a genius.
What do you think that is?
Is that a turkey ball?
Just put that down.
Like a klepto here.
All right.
- The prince should be staying
in one of these rooms.
- I think that's an elevator.
Don't-- you give me
such a headache.
You give me a headache.
You're giving me a headache.
- MARV:
Don't push me.
- Door, close.
(whispering)
You're driving me crazy.
You're driving me--
oh, shut up.
Door, open.
Door, close.
I love this thing.
Marv--
The door was... shutting.
What's wrong
with this thing?
Door, open.
MARV (whispering):
I think there's somebody here.
Anybody in here?
Well, not now.
Shh!
You shh!
(water running)
Maybe the prince came early.
(raspberry)
MARV:
What the--
(both screaming)
(groans)
That's it. Come on.
Ow!
(groaning)
(screaming)
(water rushing)
(gasping)
Up!
- MARV:
Come on, honey.
- Uh! Marv!
- (creaking)
- (Vera gasping)
(screaming)
MARV:
Ow! Ow! Ow!
Ay, ay, ay, ay, ay!
(Vera gasping)
Mr. Prescott!
- You!
- Hello, Marv.
Well, long time, no see.
- Huh, kid?
- Is that the prince?
No, that's Kevin.
Kevin, Vera.
Vera, Kevin.
If that ain't him,
let's get outta here
before somebody sees us.
Yeah. I think we got
the lay of the land.
I'll be back!
(yells)
Come on!
Oh, all right!
(tires squealing)
House, clean yourself up.
(buzzes)
Well, it was worth a try.
Okay, maybe
they won't be too mad.
I mean, once I tell them
what happened, maybe
they'll be okay with it.
(screams)
Or maybe not.
What-- what--
(creaking)
Okay, I know
it looks bad, but--
(screams)
Honey, what's the--
(panting)
Kevin, what-- what--
What have you done?
Prescott! Prescott!
It's not working. I tried.
Prescott:
Yes, ma'am?
Get up here! Now!
- Well, it wasn't working.
- Kevin, what happened?
It wasn't me.
It was the burglars.
- The burglars?
- Yeah. And I recognized
the one guy. Marv.
Did I ever tell you about him?
Well, that's another story.
But the point is
they were gonna
rip off your house.
-So you chose instead
to trash it?
-No. I was trying to protect it.
- By trashing it?
- What in the name of--
Hey, why didn't you come
when I was calling you?
Prescott,
Were you aware of
any burglars here today?
Burglars?
No, ma'am. All the alarms
were on as usual.
Maybe they turned 'em off.
They had one of these, you know.
I saw no intruders,
and except for--
beg your pardon, ma'am--
the briefest of bathroom
breaks, my eyes were on
the monitors at all times.
How one child could do
so much damage in the time
it took me to--
- Well, it's quite beyond me.
- It wasn't me!
Well, there was
no one else here.
- He's lying!
- Am not!
- Are too!
- With all due respect, sir,
I did see master Kevin
playing with the devices...
as if the house
were a big toy.
(gasps)
The only hooligan
here today was your son.
(hyperventilating)
Give us a minute.
(hyperventilating continues)
Kevin.
Kevin, sit.
Dad--
What's going on?
I told you. The burglars
broke into the house.
Kevin, you know I can forgive
just about anything but lying.
Oh, right. So you wouldn't get
mad if I wrecked the place,
which I didn't,
as long as
I admit that I did,
which I didn't?
Well, I thought
this over and, uh,
I understand that
this is a difficult
adjustment for you.
And it's only natural
that you'd be acting out.
It's a need for attention.
- No, it isn't.
- Kevin!
Anyway--
Anyway,
what's a little damage?
It's not as if
I'm not insured.
Do you have something to say?
Thank you.
- And?
- I'm sorry for the damage
of your house.
(audio rewinding)
The security cameras
must have got
the whole thing on tape.
What?
Prescott must have
turned off the cameras.
MARV:
It's unbelievable.
It is not to be believed!
I can't believe this!
It's the lousy kid again.
Everywhere I break into!
It's like he's stalking me
or something.
Come on, Marv.
He's just a little boy.
Yeah, well, I got
big scars from that little--
Never mind.
I'll tell you one thing,
this time he's
not gonna mess me up.
- Mm-hmm.
- This time it's all gonna go
smooth as silk.
Because this time...
I got an inside man.
- (chuckling)
Oh.
(chuckles)
(grunts)
(tires squeal)
Hey, hey, hey, hey!
(horn honking)
MARV: Hey, come on!
Watch the road! Safety first.
- (screams)
- What are you doing here?
- Tell me.
- I, uh-- I--
Nothing. I swear.
I just thought all of this was
kinda cool so I wanted
to take a look at it.
You don't go to other people's
homes uninvited, and you don't
touch their things.
Didn't I warn you
what would happen if I ever
caught you in here again?
Not specifically.
Trust me.
It won't be pleasant.
(knocking on door)
What do you want?
I thought I heard
the boy. Ah!
And indeed I did.
I don't want him bothering you
anymore, so I'll just get him
out of your way.
Come along, Kevin.
He'll be my responsibility
from now on.
Thank you for
saving me, Molly.
Prescott is a good person
to stay away from.
You're telling me.
He's one of the bad guys--
The bad guys who
broke into the house.
Although technically
they didn't break in, because
they had their own remote.
And who do you think
gave them that?
Prescott?
- Mm-hmm.
- That sounds a bit
far-fetched to me.
I know.
And you probably think I have
an overactive imagination.
Most people do.
But you have to believe me.
Kevin, Prescott is a lonely man.
The only thing he has
is this job.
And between you and me,
he hates working here.
But to do
what you're suggesting--
Then it all makes perfect sense.
He hates his job, so he tries
to pull off a big heist
so he can afford to quit.
Ah, I don't know.
Listen.
He told my dad I was lying
when I wasn't.
And he shut off
the security cameras.
So it can only mean one thing.
- And that is?
- Marv and his new friend...
have an inside guy--
Prescott.
I think you're right.
- I am?
- Yeah. You do have
an overactive imagination.
But that's what I love
about children.
My own son was the same
as you at your age--
a real handful.
You must have been
a great mom, Molly.
Well, you just try to keep
that imagination
under control, okay?
(classical music on stereo)
PETER:
You were very understanding
about what happened today.
Well, Kevin's going through
a difficult time.
It's not easy
when your parents split up.
Believe me, I know.
But we'll get through it.
You're gonna be
a great stepmom.
(music continues)
(exhales) I think we just need
to figure out a way to make him
feel more at home here.
Maybe do some of the Christmas
things he's used to doing,
like trimming the tree.
You do that yourself?
(chuckles) Yes, I do
that myself.
It's fun. That's exactly
what we're gonna do.
We're gonna trim the tree.
It'll get us in the spirit
of things, unite us as a family.
Okay.
Okay?
No friends, no fun, no snow.
This is definitely
gonna be the worst
Christmas ever.
Hey, Kev.
How you doing?
(sighs)
What do you say
we just forget about today
and start over, huh?
You mean it?
Yeah.
You know, Natalie's really
a great person.
You just gotta get to
know her better.
I think we should start having
a little more fun around here.
I could live with that.
Yeah?
Why don't we start
by trimming that tree?
Now?
Sure. Why not?
♪ Jingle bells
jingle bells ♪
♪ Jingle all the way ♪
♪ Oh, what fun it is to ride
in a one-horse open sleigh ♪
♪ Jingle bells
jingle bells ♪
♪ Jingle all the way ♪
♪ Oh, what fun it is to ride
in a one-horse open sleigh ♪
♪ Dashing through the snow ♪
♪ In a one-horse open sleigh ♪
♪ Over the fields we go ♪
♪ Laughing all the way ♪
♪ Bells on bobtails ring
making spirits bright ♪
♪ What fun it is
to ride and sing
a sleighing song tonight ♪
♪ Oh, jingle bells
jingle bells ♪
♪ Jingle all the way
oh, what fun it is to ride ♪
♪ In a one-horse open sleigh ♪
♪ Jingle bells
jingle bells ♪
♪ Jingle all the way ♪
♪ Oh, what fun it is to ride
in a one-horse open sleigh ♪
(phone rings)
♪ Dashing through the snow ♪
(ringing continues)
♪ In a one-horse open sleigh ♪
♪ Over the fields we go ♪
- Hello.
- ♪ Laughing all the way ♪
- Hold on, I can't hear you.
Can you turn down the music?
- ♪ Making spirits bright ♪
♪ What fun it is to
ride and sing ♪
♪ A sleighing song tonight ♪
Music, off.
What did you say?
Of course we'll be there.
We wouldn't miss it.
Let me call you back.
(phone beeps off)
Evangelista's in town.
Margaret's just throwing
together a little
impromptu supper,
but we shouldn't go,
should we?
Well, why don't you just
go ahead without me,
and Kevin and I
will finish up over here?
Really? You wouldn't mind?
No. They're your friends anyway.
You're an angel.
I won't be home late.
Okay.
Where were we?
You don't have to stay
because of me.
No, I want to stay. Really.
So, does Natalie go out
every night?
Pretty much. She leads a very
exciting life-- more exciting
than we're used to.
So you'd say
you're not in a rut?
No, I'm not in a rut. Why?
I thought maybe
that's why you left.
Kevin. Kevin, you know--
I didn't leave your mom
to be with Natalie, okay?
That just kind of
happened later.
You wanna tell me about it?
(exhales)
Adult relationships
are just complicated.
Sometimes when two people
get married really young
like your mom and I did,
You just end up
feeling kind of--
- You missed out on some things.
- Yeah.
Just 'cause you grow up
on the outside,
doesn't mean you wanna
stop having fun,
enjoying life.
I know all about
the inner child, Dad.
- Oh. You do, huh?
- That's why old guys
drive sports cars.
You're probably right.
But the trouble with
sports cars--
no room for anybody else.
Maybe one other person max.
But if you want to take
a real road trip,
with luggage and all,
you don't even have room
for a friend.
I mean, they're
cool and fast and all,
but who wants to be
in a nice car when
you're all alone?
(Kate sighs)
Well, that looks
just about perfect.
All that's left to do now
is put on the star.
Kevin always puts on the star.
That's right.
He does, doesn't he?
I always hold him up.
And then I give him a wedgie.
(chuckles) He makes a fuss.
We all laugh.
Well, I guess
we're just gonna have to
use the ladder this year.
Okay, Dad, you can
put me down now.
Wow. Looks pretty good.
I think it looks great.
I think it's
our best tree yet.
PETER (on tv): Hey!
(family chattering)
- Merry Christmas, Mommy.
- KEVIN:
Merry Christmas.
KATE (on tv): Merry Christmas.
(all chattering)
Oh! Look at that!
KATE: Hey. Hey.
PETER: Hey.
PETER:
I had this little
computer chip installed in
Mom.
We're gonna get her
to make some breakfast.
(yawns) Morning.
Mornin'.
Good morning, sleepyheads.
You're finally up.
What did you do
to our tree?
Oh, that's my fault.
I have a standing appointment
with the tree decorators
every year.
And in all the excitement,
I forgot to cancel.
Are you ever
gonna forgive me?
You undid our tree?
Well, it would have
had to come down
eventually anyway.
Yeah, come on, Kev.
Look at all these presents, huh?
Oh, wait.
Ooh, here's a big one.
I believe it has--
yes, it has
your name on it.
Come on. Let's open it up.
It's from Natalie and me.
But shouldn't I open it
tomorrow on Christmas?
Ah, you got plenty
to open tomorrow.
Come on. One won't hurt.
Go ahead.
(gasps)
Super spy bugging
and listening device.
Isn't that cool?
Yeah. Thanks, Dad.
Thanks, Natalie.
I'm glad you like it.
- Hey, Mom, where are you going?
- I'm going to take Kevin
some things.
- Mom, where you going?
- He doesn't have
any clean clothes with him,
and I'm sure
he doesn't have
any toys to play with.
To check out Dad's girlfriend.
Wanna go?
(doorbell rings)
May I help you?
Wow!
I'm here for
Kevin McCallister.
Wow!
Buzz.
- Are you here to take him home?
- No, I have something for him.
Right this way.
PETER:
You should be able to hear that.
How do I sound?
KATE (on headset):
Kids, stay close.
Mom!
Hey!
Mmm! Ohh!
- (chuckles)
- Hey, you guys remember
Natalie, right?
Buzz, Megan.
Hi, Natalie.
Oh, and, uh,
Kate, this is Natalie.
Natalie, Kate.
Hello, Kate.
Hello.
So, are you guys gonna stay?
No, I just brought you
some of your stuff.
You guys gotta see this house.
- Is that okay, Natalie?
- Of course. Be my guest.
Awesome tree!
It used to look better.
Wait, what is this thing
on your head?
It's a spy kit that Natalie
got me for an early
Christmas present.
Really?
That was nice of you.
Well, I'm very fond
of your kids.
I've gotta show you
this airplane that she got me.
Would you like
a cup of coffee?
Oh, no, thank you.
I, uh, didn't know he would have
all this stuff to play with.
Yeah.
Oh, god. Hey.
Let me get that.
I wasn't even sure he could
even sleep without it.
Gosh, you know what?
I cannot believe
he hasn't even asked for it.
Well, we could buy him
another stuffed animal.
Oh, no, no.
No.
This is, uh, is Teddy.
Teddy is his
transitional object.
Yeah.
Transitional object.
It's like something very,
very special a child carries
with him everywhere.
You're actually supposed to have
a spare, in case something
happens to it.
Of course,
we only had one, remember?
Oh! How could I forget?
We were driving down
the highway,
like, really in a hurry,
going somewhere,
of course, Kevin thinks,
oh possibly Teddy might
want a little fresh air.
So he rolls down the window
and out flies Teddy!
He was ballistic.
He was crying.
He was so upset.
It was-- oh, my--
So Peter pulls over,
and I get out
to retrieve the bear.
- I still can't
believe you did that.
- (chuckles)
Well, it was the slow lane,
and there wasn't much traffic.
Yeah, well, I don't know
what he would have done
if he had lost it.
Well, I think Kevin's going to
have so much fun playing
with the prince...
that he's not even gonna
miss the stuffed animal.
It's going to be so wonderful
having a house full of children.
I'm looking forward to it.
Children, watch
the garden sculpture!
Well, I... better get going.
Before they break something.
Well, we're off to the airport
to pick up the royal family.
You all know
how important this is.
Now, the caterers
will be here momentarily.
And the guests will arrive
about an hour before...
you and the royals
make your grand entrance.
MOLLY: No need to worry, ma'am.
Everything will be
taken care of.
It's just that I want
everything to go right.
Come on. Let's not be late.
I don't want one
single thing to go wrong.
Door, open.
And nothing will.
(people chattering)
(knocking on door)
Prescott:
Oh, good.
You've finally arrived.
- Mr. Prescott!
Mr. Prescott! It's them!
- Hush, you.
I'll get him
out of your way.
Thank you.
It's the burglars!
Aah! Mr. Prescott!
KEVIN (yelling):
it's Marv!
I guess you already
knew that though.
Listen, you.
I have just about had enough
of you and your melodrama!
This is a very important night,
and if I have to lock you up
to keep you out of our way,
don't think I won't do it.
Look!
Ow!
Ow! Ow!
Don't trifle with me,
you demon spawn!
Now that's
a foolish place to hide.
(groans)
One down, two to go.
(muffled) Let me out of here!
Let me out of here!
It's freezing cold!
Let me out!
Kevin, have you seen Prescott?
Not lately.
Ah, typical.
Always poking around
when you don't want him,
and when you need him--
nowhere to be found.
(doorbell rings)
Ah! Guests already?
Whatever happened
to fashionably late?
NATALIE:
Well, I don't like
to boast, but,
yes, it will be
the party of the season.
(beep)
Oh, I'm getting another call.
All right. See you there.
Hello? Carmelina,
how are you?
(mouthing words)
What? Oh, no!
They're snowed in.
Their flight's been canceled.
Well, so am I. Devastated.
Well, all right.
We'll see you tomorrow.
Merry Christmas.
(phone beeps off)
What are we gonna do now?
It's gonna be just
an ordinary party.
Christmas Eve at your place
sounds anything
but ordinary to me.
It's hardly the party
of the season.
Peter.
- What if we announce
our engagement tonight?
- Tonight?
I know we were
gonna wait till after
your divorce was final,
but it's only a few weeks away
and your kids already know,
and it'll make tonight
so special.
Well, if it makes you happy.
Yes!
(chuckles)
Where are those guys?
Marv, I gotta tinkle.
Vera, you can
tinkle next week.
MARV (on headset):
Always in a hurry.
Door, open.
All right.
Now, you remember the plan?
Which plan? Harry's plan?
What-- no!
Not harry's plan!
The one involving
rope and a bag!
Why are you yelling at me?
I'm not yell--
Do you remember
the plan?
Yeah.
Now, when the prince
comes up to bed--
We bag him!
- That's right.
We kidnap the kid napping.
- You're a genius, Marv.
That's right.
Door, open.
Now, the prince goes
in the bag.
The bag goes out the window.
Uh-huh.
We climb down the rope.
Door, close.
Right.
MARV (on headset):
Everybody in the van.
And we're gone before
they know what hit 'em.
Beautiful plan, Marv.
Elegant in its simplicity.
All right.
Let's try it out.
Get in the bag.
Me? Why don't you
get in the bag?
Because I'm the boss.
Get in the bag, Vera.
- I don't wanna get in the bag.
- Vera, just get in the bag!
Please!
You didn't tell me
I was gonna get in no bag.
I was saving it.
It's gonna be fun.
Ooh, we're in the bag!
- (grunting)
- (groaning)
Nice. All right.
Window, open.
Ahh.
(grunts)
VERA:
Uh, Marv. Ooh. Oh.
(grunts)
Don't worry, honey.
I got ya.
Marv! Let me down easy.
I always do, baby.
(straining)
Shouldn't have had
that last piece of cake.
(yelps)
(rope creaking)
- Perfect.
- Door, open.
(screams)
- (groans)
- Don't worry.
Everything's under control.
Uh, uh, Marv--
(screaming)
- (thud)
- Easy...
but still way cool.
(Marv groaning)
Thanks for breaking
my fall, pumpkin.
(hoarse voice)
I always do, baby. Okay.
Get out and stay out!
- I know what
you're trying to do.
- Oh, yeah, wise guy? What?
You're trying to
kidnap the prince.
Shut up,
ya little moron!
- I'm gonna kill him.
- Okay.
(chuckling)
(raspberry)
Vera, honey.
Little help?
Oh, yeah, baby.
That'd be great.
I sure could use it.
- (Marv groaning on headset)
- I got every word.
(imitates cheer)
(classical music on stereo)
Welcome back.
Where's the royal family?
They were snowed in.
Ah!
Where's Prescott?
I can't find him anywhere.
That's odd.
Well, Molly, make sure
everyone has champagne.
We're going to make
a special announcement.
Yes, ma'am.
How are you?
Hi, how are you?
Good to see you again.
Everyone, may I have
your attention?
Huh?
I am gonna kill that--
Uuh!
- (clattering)
- (screaming)
This is always a special night,
and tonight may be
even more special.
(seething)
Get him!
- Peter and I are engaged!
- (crowd exclaiming)
(screams, shouts)
- (teeth chattering)
- Prescott?
- (softly moaning)
- This could not be goin' worse.
Marv, you're on fire.
Oh, thanks, baby.
You're not so bad yourself.
No, sweetheart.
You're really on fire.
Well, I try to work out.
You know-- Aah!
Gaah! Aah!
- Whoo! Whoo! Whoo!
- Kevin!
I'm not lying.
The bad guys are back.
We're not getting anywhere.
Kevin, I spoke to
all the caterers and to Molly.
Nobody saw a thing but you.
Now, how could that be?
I don't know.
But I heard they're gonna
kidnap the prince.
- You heard them say that?
- Yeah, with my
super spy bugging device.
- And Prescott's involved
with the whole thing.
- This is absurd.
I'm going to call and make sure
the royal family's flight
is okay for tomorrow.
Kevin, I know
what's going on here.
You do?
Yeah.
You're out to destroy
my relationship with Natalie.
What?
You knew how important tonight
was to her, and you went and
pulled a crazy stunt like this.
- That's not the truth.
- I've given you
a lot of leeway,
because I know how tough
this divorce has been on you.
But tonight you went
way too far.
I want you to go to your room
and think about
what you've done.
And when you're ready
to apologize to Natalie,
then we'll talk.
Door, close.
Here you are, George!
Merry Christmas!
(woman crying)
(ringing)
- Hello?
- Mom?
Kevin! Oh, Kevin.
I'm so glad you called.
Are you okay?
Yeah, yeah.
I'm just watching
It's a Wonderful Life.
- You are?
- You know how that gets to me.
- What channel is it on?
- Eight.
Ohh.
I guess I'm just a sucker
for happy endings.
So, how is your party?
Are you havin' a good time?
Yeah, it's all right.
How about you?
Havin' a good Christmas Eve?
Yeah. It's great.
(sniffles)
- (sobs)
I love you, Kevin.
- Love you too, Mom.
(laughs)
Merry Christmas.
- Merry Christmas.
- Okay. Bye.
(beeps off)
(crying)
(knocking)
- Kevin, are you awake?
- Yeah.
Your father and I were
a little rough on you before.
Are you okay?
- Yeah.
- Good.
Because if you ever do anything
like that again, you'll be
out of this house so fast...
your head will spin.
So your father's
getting divorced. Boo-hoo.
Everyone's parents get divorced.
That's life. You'll get over it.
But you're not gonna come
between your father and me.
He wants you in his life,
and I think that's admirable.
But if you want
him in your life,
you better not cross me.
Understood? Good.
I'll have that window fixed
first thing in the morning.
Sweet dreams.
MAN (on tv):
To my big brother George,
the richest man in town.
(crowd exclaiming)
I've just had
a nice little chat with Kevin.
I think we're beginning
to understand
each other better.
What are you watching?
It's a Wonderful Life.
They've been running it
all night.
- Come on. Watch it with me.
- I've seen it.
- So?
- So...
I don't understand people
who watch movies
over and over again.
I saw it. I cried.
Once was enough.
You gotta be kidding.
Kate and I watch this
every year with the kids.
It's a family tradition.
Well.
(clicks off)
Now that you're going to have
a new family, maybe it's time
for some new traditions.
They'll be back.
And if no one believes me,
I'll have to catch 'em myself.
(grunts)
MARV:
Shut up, you little moron.
(clicks off)
(keyboard clacking)
Shut up, you moron.
- Okay, stop.
- (beeps)
(electronic voice)
Spin faster.
(keyboard clacking)
MARV:
Get in the bag.
Shut up, ya bag!
Christmas morning.
Merry Christmas, Kevin.
Merry Christmas, Dad!
Hey, hey!
- Peter, are you ready to go?
- Go? Go where?
Kevin, Natalie and I
gotta go pick up
the royal family right now.
Now? But aren't we
gonna open presents?
It's gonna have to wait
till we get back.
But it's Christmas.
And why do you both
have to go?
Look, you know how sometimes
you gotta do things
you don't wanna do?
This is one of those times.
Hey, we'll be back before
you know it, okay?
And I'm sure nothing will
happen while we're gone.
Am I right?
- Right.
- Good.
Hang in there.
We won't be long.
Door, open.
(door opens)
NATALIE:
Merry Christmas, Kevin.
(door shuts)
Merry Christmas.
(cell phone rings)
(ringing continues)
- (sighs)
- (beeps on)
Hello?
No, we're awake.
It wasn't me!
Shh! All right.
We're on our way.
(beeps off)
Oy.
Sure makes me nervous.
Let's go, pookie.
I knew it. Here they come.
First step--
eliminate the inside man.
Oh, Mr. Prescott?
Mr. Prescott,
are you in there?
(pounding)
Yes.
Mr. Prescott,
can you help me
with something?
And what would that be?
Another milk shake,
perhaps?
No. A bottle of wine.
Excuse me?
Natalie said we need to get
some wine from the basement...
for the royal family.
If we must.
So I guess you're right.
We're not gonna have
any snow this Christmas.
One can never go wrong
with low expectations.
You know, Mr. Prescott,
it's been great spending time
with you these last few days.
Time flies when
you're having fun.
I know we got off to
a bad start, but things
can be better-- much better.
- 'Cause you're down there,
and I'm up here.
- Come get--
(pounding)
Young man, open this door!
Let me out of here!
Oh!
Oh, boy!
Am I glad to see you!
The kidnappers are coming.
But this time I'm one step
ahead of them.
And I locked their accomplice
in the basement. Is this
a perfect plan, or what?
It would be, dear,
except for one thing--
Prescott is not
their accomplice.
I am.
(gasps)
You're--
you're the inside man?
- I'm afraid so.
- Hey, Mom.
We're here.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
- Mom? He's your son?
- I told you he was a handful.
Aah! Hey!
Get off of me!
Oh, now, come on!
Isn't there a trapdoor
or something?
No. Not much demand for 'em
in a wine cellar.
Guess you're right.
Got any good ideas?
Not a one.
(sighs)
I do have a cell phone though.
Perfect! May I?
Sure.
Thanks.
(beeping)
(ringing, beeps on)
Hello, Buzz?
Kevin, is that you?
- Yeah. I'm calling
from a cell phone.
- Oh, a cell phone.
Good for you, puke-face.
Is that another present
she gave you? What a showoff.
(beeps off)
- I'll try again.
- (keypad beeping)
(ringing, beeps on)
Buzz, before you hang up,
I need to tell you something.
I need to talk to Mom.
Okay. You told me.
(beeps off)
I'll try again later.
(sighs)
Why in heaven's name did you
think I was the inside man?
Well, if you hadn't acted
so strange, I wouldn't have
thought you were...
so strange.
And where were you
the first time
these guys broke in?
Why didn't you answer
the intercom?
Why did you
shut off the cameras?
I didn't. But if those thugs
were using Molly's remote,
they could've turned off
the whole security system.
- But why'd you say I was lying?
- Well, because I thought
you were.
And besides, I didn't
want Miss Natalie to know
that I'd been,
well, napping on the job.
That woman.
If she could work me
24 hours a day, she would.
It's downright inhuman.
So, whenever she's not here,
I, uh--
You take advantage.
I take a break.
A nice, well-deserved break.
With all the cameras
and intercoms turned off,
I didn't notice anything.
- So I--
- You were covering
your whoo-hoo!
(chuckles) Precisely.
You want to try
calling your mom again?
Sure.
(ringing)
- Hello?
- Mom?
Kevin!
(static)
- Wait. Kevin, I can't hear you.
- That's probably 'cause
I'm locked in a wine cellar.
No, I-- honey, I can't hear you.
There's too much static.
(yelling) I'm locked in
Natalie's wine cellar!
- Are you calling to say
Merry Christmas?
- Mom, are you there?
- Sweetheart?
- Are you there, Mom?
- Kevin?
- Mom? Mom?
(beeps off)
Oh, great!
The battery's dead.
(sighs)
Hmm.
(ringing)
- (beeps on)
- Kalban residence.
Hi, this is Kate McCallister,
Kevin's mom.
May I speak to him, please?
Kevin's not here right now.
That's strange.
He just called.
Really? Well, he's out with
his father and Miss Natalie.
Oh. Oh, he must have called
from his dad's cell phone. That
explains the line going dead.
Okay. Thank you.
(clicks, dial tone)
(beeps off)
Little rascal
called his mother.
You want me to go
show him who's boss?
Sit down, Marv.
You're not the boss.
I'm the boss.
Okay.
(mouthing words)
His cell phone is dead.
I don't think he'll be
any more trouble.
No.
Cookie.
- (cell phone rings)
- Oh!
- (beeps on)
- Hello?
Peter, it's me.
I'm calling Kevin back.
We got disconnected.
Kevin?
Kevin's not with me.
He's back at Natalie's house.
Really? I was just told
he's with you.
Well-- well, don't worry, Kate.
I'm sure everything's fine.
Okay.
- Wow, that's weird.
- (phone beeps off)
- Someone told Kate
that Kevin's with us.
- Hmm.
Maybe I better go back
and check on him.
No.
That's exactly what he wants.
Peter, he's manipulating you.
Can't you see the pattern?
Every time we leave the house,
he pulls something.
He's just trying
to get your attention
and sabotage me.
Hello!
Anybody out there? Hello!
There's gotta be something that
we can do to get outta here.
There is.
Help me
move these boxes.
Okay.
But what's back there?
Definitely not
a "dumb" question.
The dumbwaiter!
Bingo.
- Let's hope it still works.
- I'm sorry I misjudged you,
Mr. Prescott.
Likewise.
I'll never forget
Miss Natalie's reaction...
when she came home and saw
what you'd done to the house.
- (rapid panting)
- (wheezing, laughing)
I do love watching her
hyperventilate!
(laughs)
It's one of the few pleasures
of this job.
If you hate this job,
why don't you quit?
Jobs aren't that easy
to come by.
Besides, I could end up
working for someone far worse.
You shouldn't stay someplace
you hate just 'cause you're
scared. Life's too short.
Hmm.
And voila.
Let's see if you fit.
Mm, up.
Watch your head.
As soon as I get up,
I'm gonna let you out.
You just take care of yourself,
you hear?
(switch clicks, whirring)
MARV:
I'm tellin' ya,
I heard something.
All right.
Stay very alert here, Vera.
I tell you what.
Why don't you go down,
check out the wine cellar?
Okay.
Yeah. There you go.
KEVIN: Down here!
You better stay-- Oww!
Vera! Ow! Aah! Vera!
What? Ooh!
Hit the button!
- Hang on, baby! Huuh!
- Oh! No, no! Hit the button!
What? I can't hear you.
Hit the button!
- Oh!
- Oww!
No, no! Not that one!
The other button!
That's it! Oww!
Hey!
Man!
Over here!
- (groaning)
- (Kevin laughing )
- Hi, Mommy.
- (gasps)
- Yes!
- (clicking buttons)
See ya. Door, open!
(grinding)
Natalie, you go get the royals.
I'm gonna go back
and check on Kevin.
- What, now?
- Yeah, somethin's up.
I can sense it.
- Maybe you have to be a parent.
- That's not fair. You know
how much I care about kids.
How much do you care
about my kid?
Taxi!
Kevin? Are you all right?
(grunting)
(horn honking)
Mom, do you think you could
slow down a little bit?
Kevin's probably fine.
You just keep an eye out
for cops, okay?
All right, Vera.
Go check out the living room.
See if he's in there, all right?
God! I can't believe this.
I shoulda gone to college.
Two years, coulda been
a dental technician. Two years!
Marv! He's in the bedroom!
- Mom?
- Get him!
Door, open.
Got ya.
Uuh! Gaah!
Aah!
Ooh!
Door, close.
- Hey, Molly!
- Get in there!
- Marv, honey. You in there?
- (beeps)
Shut up, Vera!
Well, okay.
I was just tryin' to--
- Shut up, you moron.
- Hey, I'm no moron, you jerk.
- Shut up, ya bag!
- Door, open!
- What's wrong with you?
I'm no bag.
And you know what?
You ain't no genius!
Vera, honey--
No! Don't "Vera, honey" me!
You're not even
as smart as this kid, who,
in case you hadn't noticed...
is totally kickin' our butts!
Well, from now on,
I am my own boss!
Vera. Vera, honey--
Don't "honey" me!
Pumpkin. Pumpkin.
Marv! Forget about her!
Get the kid! I'll be outta
here in a few minutes.
(buzzing)
(thuds, buzzing stops)
Oh!
(chuckling)
Whoa!
(yelping)
(both groaning)
Hey! Hey!
Open sesame.
Well, get a load
of that.
Holy majolie!
Come on, Vera!
All right! Come on out, kid!
Ah! All right.
Open bar.
Open bookshelf.
(buzzes)
Open-- open book-bar.
Open book-bar-shelf.
Open--
open book-bar-thing.
Open sesame.
That's stupid.
Whoa!
Who's stupid now, stupid?
Hey, come on.
Just get off me, all right?
MARV:
I'm gonna take care
of everything.
Bar, revolve sesame.
MARV: Watch this.
It's all gonna be fine.
Bar, stop.
Oh!
It's goin' faster!
Yeah, I know, Vera.
I know it's goin' faster.
- Speed faster sesame.
- Okay. The wife's not feelin'--
Faster sesame!
- (panicked yelling)
- Maximum speed sesame.
(Kevin laughing)
Stop sesame.
(gasps)
(screaming)
Nice jump, Marv.
(groaning)
Ohh!
(gasping)
Oof!
Merry Christmas to all,
and to all a good night.
Good night. Aah!
(Kevin gasps)
- Mr. Prescott!
- At your service.
- Boy, am I glad to see you.
- (chuckles)
Perhaps we should
call the police.
Good idea, Mr. Prescott.
Just "Prescott" to you.
"Prescott!"
I thought you said
you weren't worried.
I don't know.
I just had a feeling.
- (Marv, Vera gasping)
- PETER: Kevin!
Dad!
Mom!
Mom?
- Who are they?
- Uh-oh!
Let's get outta here!
Around the back!
We're on it.
Let's go!
Kevin!
Ooh-ooh!
Yes!
Uuh!
Yeah! Way to go, guys!
KATE:
Kevin!
- Kevin!
- Mom!
Oh, honey! I'm so glad
you're all right.
Ohh!
I am now!
I'm so sorry
I didn't believe you.
- Mmm!
- (Prescott clears throat)
The police
have been summoned.
I've got lots of fun
planned for your stay.
Can we go to Wrigley Field?
And the aquarium?
Do you have any kids?
No. But I promise we'll have
a very exciting time.
- (sirens wailing)
- Cool!
Oh, come on.
No, prison's not so bad.
Oh, yeah?
Yeah. On Thursdays
you get Salisbury steak.
Yeah, I know about prison.
That's where I met you.
Calm down. Calm down.
You calm down.
Women, eh?
Yeah.
Hey, don't touch me.
- Peter! What's he done now?
- Well, he saved the day,
that's what.
You should be thanking him.
Molly? What in the world
is going on?
It seems they were gonna kidnap
the prince. Best we can gather,
she's the boss.
She's my maid.
I'm her boss!
Well, looks like you're
gonna have to find a new maid.
And a new butler,
I'm afraid.
- I resign.
- Resign?
But... why?
Because as a wise young man
once said, "Life's too short."
Peter, do something.
All right. Here goes.
Natalie,
I think I mistook...
infatuation and excitement
for love.
Look, this--
this is your world.
It's not mine.
The whole time I was here,
all I did was miss my family.
I'm in love
with my wife and kids,
and I belong with them.
And I wanna come home.
I mean, I understand if you
need time to think about it.
Mom?
Oh!
(crying)
I love you.
Young man, how are we ever
going to show you our gratitude?
Would your family like to spend
Christmas with our family?
That sounds cool.
- Is that okay?
- (chuckles) Yes.
You're going to be with them?
Today? On Christmas?
(crying)
(panting)
Thank you.
Music, on.
(Christmas music playing)
Snow, fall.
Ha ha! Hey!
I knew this was gonna be
the best Christmas ever!
(all exclaiming)